Entity Attributes page (#320)
FabricMC/fabric-docs: develop/entities/attributes.md

---

> title: Attributes

Reviewer: While the path and sidebar are fine, I think the title is a bit too generic. Maybe we could consider, for the future, adding automatic breadcrumbs to the title to show **Entities > Attributes**.

```suggestion
title: Entity Attributes
```

description: Learn how to add custom attributes to entities.
authors:
- cassiancc
- cprodhomme
---

Attributes determine the properties that your modded entity can possess. Using Fabric, you can create your own custom attributes that enhance gameplay mechanics and apply vanilla ones as well.

## Creating a Custom Attribute {#creating-a-custom-attribute}

Let's create a custom attribute named `AGGRO_RANGE`. This attribute will control the distance an entity can detect and react to potential threats from.

### Defining the Attribute Class {#define-the-attribute-class}

Begin by creating a Java class to manage the definition and registration of your attributes under your mod's code structure. This example will create the following functions in a class named `ModAttributes`.

First, a basic helper method to register your mod's attributes. This method will accept the following parameters and register an attribute.

- A `String` that will be the name of your attribute.
- A `double` that will be the default value of the attribute.
- A `double` that will be the lowest value your attribute will reach.
- A `double` that will be the highest value your attribute will reach.

> - A `boolean` for whether clients should know about this attribute.

Reviewer 2: To me, the phrase "for whether clients should know about this attribute" sounds verbose and breaks the reading flow. Maybe "that dictates whether the attribute will be synced to clients" would be better here.

Reviewer 3: I had written that, but it was pointed out on another PR that some users might not understand what syncing means.

Reviewer 2: That's fair, although I still want to somehow change the original statement.

Reviewer 3: Using your wording for it until/unless we come up with something better.

Calling a method on a class statically initializes it if it hasn't been previously loaded - this means that all `static` fields are evaluated. This is what this dummy `initialize` method is for.

## Applying Attributes {#apply-the-attribute}

Attributes need to be attached to an entity to take effect. This is typically done in the method where an entity's attributes are built or modified.

Vanilla provides attributes as well, including [max health](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Attribute#Max_health), [movement speed](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Attribute#Movement_speed), and [attack damage](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Attribute#Attack_damage) as seen below. For a full list, see the vanilla `Attributes` class and the [Minecraft Wiki](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Attribute).

As a demo, we'll include maximum health, movement speed, attack damage and the aggro range attribute as created earlier.

<!-- TODO: move to the reference mod -->
```java
public static AttributeSupplier.Builder createEntityAttributes() {
    return Mob.createMobAttributes()
        .add(Attributes.MAX_HEALTH, 25.0)
        .add(Attributes.MOVEMENT_SPEED, 0.22D)
        .add(Attributes.ATTACK_DAMAGE, 3.0D)

>         .add(ModEntityAttributes.AGGRO_RANGE, 8.0);

Reviewer 2: Double consistency - either append `D` to all or none

}

> ```

Reviewer 2: This page feels slightly lacking in that it doesn't actually inform the user how to obtain the attribute value from the entity. This should be self-explanatory but I think it is necessary for this to be complete.

---
title: Entity Attributes
description: Learn how to add custom attributes to entities.
authors:
- cassiancc
- cprodhomme
---

Attributes determine the properties that your modded entity can possess. Using Fabric, you can create your own custom attributes that enhance gameplay mechanics and apply vanilla ones as well.

## Creating a Custom Attribute {#creating-a-custom-attribute}

Let's create a custom attribute named `AGGRO_RANGE`. This attribute will control the distance an entity can detect and react to potential threats from.

### Defining the Attribute Class {#define-the-attribute-class}

Begin by creating a Java class to manage the definition and registration of your attributes under your mod's code structure. This example will create the following functions in a class named `ModAttributes`.

> First, a basic helper method to register your mod's attributes. This method will accept the following parameters and register an attribute.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, start with a basic helper method to register your mod's attributes. This method will accept the following parameters and register an attribute.
```

- A `String` that will be the name of your attribute.
- A `double` that will be the default value of the attribute.
- A `double` that will be the lowest value your attribute will reach.
- A `double` that will be the highest value your attribute will reach.

> - A `boolean` that dictates whether the attribute will be synced to clients.

Reviewer 2: Remove periods here? They're not full sentences.

As a demo, we'll include maximum health, movement speed, attack damage and the aggro range attribute as created earlier.

<!-- TODO: move to the reference mod -->
```java
public static AttributeSupplier.Builder createEntityAttributes() {
    return Mob.createMobAttributes()
        .add(Attributes.MAX_HEALTH, 25.0)
        .add(Attributes.MOVEMENT_SPEED, 0.22)
        .add(Attributes.ATTACK_DAMAGE, 3.0)
        .add(ModAttributes.AGGRO_RANGE, 8.0);
}
```

## Reading and Modifying Attributes {#reading-modifying-attributes}

An attribute by itself is just data attached to an entity. For it to be useful, we need to be able to read from and write to it. There are two main ways to do this: getting the `AttributeInstance` on the entity, or getting the value directly.

```java
entity.getAttribute(ModAttributes.AGGRO_RANGE) // returns an `AttributeInstance`
entity.getAttributeValue(ModAttributes.AGGRO_RANGE) // returns a double with the current value
entity.getAttributeBaseValue(ModAttributes.AGGRO_RANGE) // returns a double with the base value
```

> An `AttributeInstance` allows more flexibility, such as setting an `AttributeModifier` on the attribute, using one of the [three vanilla attribute modifier operations](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Attribute#Operations).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An `AttributeInstance` allows more flexibility, such as setting an `AttributeModifier` on the attribute, using one of the [three vanilla attribute modifier operations](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Attribute#Operations). Modifiers can be permanent (saved to NBT) or transitive (not saved to NBT) and are added using `addPermanentModifier` or `addTransitiveModifier`, respectively.
```
Supersedes https://github.com/FabricMC/fabric-docs/pull/320/files#r2594025169

```java

> attribute.addPermanentModifier(

Reviewer 2: Add a note about the difference between persistent and transient modifiers.

## Applying Attributes {#apply-the-attribute}

Attributes need to be attached to an entity to take effect. This is typically done in the method where an entity's attributes are built or modified.

Vanilla provides attributes as well, including [max health](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Attribute#Max_health), [movement speed](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Attribute#Movement_speed), and [attack damage](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Attribute#Attack_damage) as seen below. For a full list, see the vanilla `Attributes` class and the [Minecraft Wiki](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Attribute).

As a demo, we'll include maximum health, movement speed, attack damage and the aggro range attribute as created earlier.

<!-- TODO: move to the reference mod -->
```java
public static AttributeSupplier.Builder createEntityAttributes() {
    return Mob.createMobAttributes()
        .add(Attributes.MAX_HEALTH, 25.0)
        .add(Attributes.MOVEMENT_SPEED, 0.22)
        .add(Attributes.ATTACK_DAMAGE, 3.0)
        .add(ModAttributes.AGGRO_RANGE, 8.0);
}
```

> ## Reading From and Writing to Attributes {#reading-from-attributes}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Reading From and Writing to Attributes {#reading-writing-attributes}
```

or

```suggestion
## Reading and Writing to Attributes {#reading-writing-attributes}
```

---
or maybe...

```suggestion
## Reading and Editing Attributes {#reading-editing-attributes}
```

or

```suggestion
## Reading and Modifying Attributes {#reading-modifying-attributes}
```

> As an attribute by itself is just data attached to an entity, it must be made useful by reading from and writing to it. There's two main ways to do this - getting the `AttributeInstance` on the entity, or getting the value directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An attribute by itself is just data attached to an entity. For it to be useful, we need to be able to read from and write to it. There are two main ways to do this: getting the `AttributeInstance` on the entity, or getting the value directly.
```

```java
entity.getAttribute(ModAttributes.AGGRO_RANGE) // returns an `AttributeInstance`
entity.getAttributeValue(ModAttributes.AGGRO_RANGE) // returns a double with the current value

> entity.getAttributeBaseValue(ModAttributes.AGGRO_RANGE) // returns a double with the base value

Reviewer 2: We can assume that modders know what the difference is between the real value and base value, right?

Reviewer 3: I would, yes. I think the current comments are sufficient.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

> An `AttributeInstance` gives more flexibility, allowing you to set a temporary `AttributeModifier` on the attribute like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An `AttributeInstance` allows more flexibility, such as setting a temporary `AttributeModifier` on the attribute:
```

> An `AttributeInstance` allows more flexibility, such as setting a temporary `AttributeModifier` on the attribute, using one of the [three vanilla attribute modifier operations](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Attribute#Operations).

Reviewer: temporary?

```java
attribute.addPermanentModifier(
    new AttributeModifier(
        ResourceLocation.fromNamespaceAndPath(ExampleMod.MOD_ID, "increased_range"), // the ID of your modifier, should be static so it can be removed
        8, // how much to modify it

>         AttributeModifier.Operation.ADD_VALUE // what operator to use, should it add to the stat or multiply it

Reviewer 2: Do we need to explain what each modifier does? After playing for so many years, I'm still not sure what the difference between the two multiplier operations are (haha).

Reviewer 2: Ah, it seems to be in the yarn javadocs so probably not.

Reviewer 3: Yarn javadocs won't be visible to people using Mojmap, which the docs are written in. I'll add a small note on it, I just couldn't figure out a natural way to integrate it last night.

>         AttributeModifier.Operation.ADD_VALUE // what operator to use, see below

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        AttributeModifier.Operation.ADD_VALUE // what operator to use, see the wiki page linked above
```

    ));
```

> Once you have access to the attribute value, you can use it in your entity's AI.

Reviewer: spOoOky spOoOoOky AI—stealing Minecraft entities' jobs also..
